[THEME MUSIC]
>>ERICH VON DANIKEN: We have all
heard of the myths and legends
of our history.
But is there another story?
In Central America and in South
America, we had, of course,
gods descending from the sky.
Like in every culture,
they were teachers.
And you can prove it.
Just outside of Mexico City is
a gigantic archaeological place
called Teotihuacan.
Every tourist should
visit Teotihuacan.
There are different
buildings and pyramids
lain up on a street which they
call "The Street of the Dead."
Now, this street is
orientated north-south,
and the pyramids and the
buildings are on the side.
And on the top of it is a sun
pyramid and the moon pyramid.
An American archaeologist--
his name was Hugh Harleston--
found out that all the buildings
on this Camino de los Muertos,
on the Street of the Dead, are
laid out in the same distance
as the planets in
our solar system.
So in the center,
you have the Sun.
The next planet is Mercury.
Then follows Venus.
Then follows the Earth.
Then follows Mars.
Between Mars and Jupiter
is the asteroid belt. Now,
on this street,
Camino de los Muertos,
they have made an
artificial river.
The river is composed of
thousands of thousands
of stones, small stones
and bigger stones.
And this river is laid
out under the Street
of the Dead, the
Camino de los Muertos,
but in the correct distance
between Mars and Jupiter.
So the river with the
thousands of stones symbolize
the asteroid belt. The asteroid
belt is composed of 10,000s
of stones.
Some of them are small.
Others of them are
very, very big.
But the natives of
Teotihuacan could not
have known something
about the asteroid belt.
So this continues.
For every planet is a building,
including Uranus, Neptune,
and Pluto.
Pluto is a very teeny planet
which our astronomers detected
in 1930.
But Pluto is part of the
system of the great, so to say,
of the Camino de los
Muertos of Teotihuacan.
They could not have
known something
about the asteroid belt,
neither something about Pluto,
but it's there in stone.
When Hernando Cortes--
Hernando Cortes was
the Spanish conqueror
who arrived a few hundred
years ago in Central America.
He passed over Teotihuacan.
It was all just covered
by grass and bushes.
You could not see the pyramids.
And Hernando Cortes
had a priest with him.
The priest was the one who
learned first the languages
of the native.
Bernadino de Sahagun
was his name.
And Bernardino de Sahagun asked
the locals, what is this here?
What's the name of the place?
He said, the name
is Teotihuacan.
So what does "Teotihuacan" mean?
"The place where the
gods are buried."
In our times, they have
found, like in Egypt,
small shafts under the
Camino de los Muertos
from one place going
to another place.
Small shafts and
rowboats were in there,
and they have come to a place
under the Great Pyramid,
the Piramide del Sol,
the Pyramid of the Sun.
And the rowboat
came to a standstill
before gigantic stone blocks.
That's the newest message.
I don't know what's
behind the stone blocks.
But if the message of Bernadino
de Sahagun, the priest,
was correct, maybe we find
some sarcophaguses of the gods,
of the extraterrestrials.
I say, the ancient Indians,
we have translatings
of the fuel, the composition
of the fuel with us together.
And one of the
components was mica.
Now, in Teotihuacan,
there is a mica chamber
completely isolated with mica.
It was for a long time
not open for tourists.
After I have published
it in my book,
now it's opened for the public.
They cannot hide it anymore.
We have no reason today why
is a whole chamber completely
isolated with mica.
Maybe it has to do with
the fuel of the gods.
Mica has some special qualities.
For example, mica is
extremely heat-resistant.
That's why we use mica in
high ovens, high temperatures.
Mica is an electrical isolator.
That's why we use little parts
of mica in our computers still
today.
And mica is resistant
against all kinds of acids.
So you have heat resistance,
electric isolator,
and isolates all kinds of acid.
And we found in
Teotihuacan a whole chamber
isolated with mica.
So the ones who gave the
order to make this chamber
and to isolate it must
have known something
about the quality of mica.
But the ancients could not have
known this heat resistance.
Then we have spoken about
Tikal, Tikal, the pyramids
in Guatemala, Central America.
There again, under
the main pyramid,
they found a big sarcophagus
where they believed, finally,
we find the founder
of the city, Tikal,
the one who created the city.
But inside, they
found quicksilver.
Quicksilver is, again,
one of the components
of the fuel of the
Vimanas in ancient India.
You see, quicksilver is
very dangerous, again.
When you respire quicksilver,
you are dead very quick.
So quicksilver can be
isolated in mica chambers.
And quicksilver was, again, one
of the components of the flying
machines of the Vimanas.
The dating of Teotihuacan
outside of Mexico City
is a mystery.
A French archaeologist,
a lady-- her name
was Mrs. le Jourette--
she was working
more than 50 years leading the
excavations of Teotihuacan.
And in her work, she says,
it's an absolute mystery.
We don't know even
the constructors.
You see, in Central
America, we had the Mayans,
but Teotihuacan is not Maya.
The pyramids of Teotihuacan
are not Maya pyramids.
I said before the Mayan pyramids
are like towers, like in India,
like towers.
But the Teotihuacan pyramid
is, again, like in Egypt.
It's not a tower.
It's a triangle.
So we don't know.
It was not the Maya, for sure.
We don't know who
were the constructors.
That's why we told the
culture, the Teotihuacanos.
It's neither the Maya--
of course, not the Inca.
The Inca were in South America.
Dating, Mrs. le Jourette said,
at least 1,000 BC, at least,
the dating.
Now, I mentioned
before that Teotihuacan
is a city which has a main
road called Camino de los
Muertos, the Street of the Dead,
where all these buildings are
which represent
our solar system.
1,000 BC-- that means
someone must have planned it,
designed it, because you cannot
construct such a city in one
generation.
You have to plan it and you know
that your following generations
of your tribe will work on
this plan for maybe 300 years.
It takes a long time before you
construct all these buildings
and the Great Pyramid.
So there was a planning before.
Planning means, again,
evolution, evolution
in technology, and it does
not fit to the Teotihuacanos,
the builders of Teotihuacan.
Again, the teachers were
the ones from heaven.
Well, this is the big mystery.
We have no idea between Mars and
Jupiter is this asteroid belt.
The natives of Teotihuacan,
the Teotihuacanos, 1,000
before Christ, could
have known nothing
about the asteroid
belt. So somebody
must have told them there is
an asteroid belt between Mars
and Jupiter.
That's why they made
the layout of this creek
with the thousands of
stones of different shapes
under the street.
Teotihuacan is unique.
We don't know what culture
created Teotihuacan.
That's why we call
it the Teotihuacanos.
It was definitely not the Maya.
The Maya had a lot of style
of building step pyramids
like towers.
The pyramids in
Teotihuacan are different.
They are like the pyramids
in Egypt, big triangles.
In South America, we have,
again, gigantic temples.
You see, in Central America, we
are talking about Teotihuacan.
In South America
in today's Bolivia
is a temple called Tiahuanaco.
The words "Teotihuacan,"
"Tiahuanaco" somehow
are related together.
Again, now this is the
Inca mythology, not
the Maya mythology.
The Inca mythology
speaks about the god.
His name was Viracocha,
and Viracocha descended.
Again, he was the
teacher of mankind.
And when the Spanish
conquerors came up
to today's Bolivia
4,000 meters high,
they saw the ruins of
this place, Tiahuanaco.
And just next to
it, just next to it,
they saw gigantic stone
blocks on the ground.
And the Spanish
themselves said, even
we Spanish with
our technology, we
could not move
these stone blocks.
And they asked the locals,
the Inca who were there,
their priests, who made this.
And they said, it was not we.
It was the gods who
made this in one night.
Now, here, we have the
work of extraterrestrials.
You see, we are talking about
the Stone Age society, again,
roughly 1000 BC.
We know what tools they had.
Now, these blocks
in the ground, they
are fabricated out of a material
which is called andesite.
Andesite is hard like chromite.
You need a hard tool
to cut andesite,
and they've cut very
precisely on the millimeter.
You see grooves inside.
You see blocks who look
like an H. Altogether,
all this means planning.
The locals had known
of this planning,
and the locals had no tools
to work on these hard stones.
The locals had no possibilities
to move stone blocks which
have 800 tons.
And we are talking of a
height of 4,000 meters,
so there's not too much air.
You have difficulties
to breathe.
They move a block of 800
tons, so in my opinion,
we have to do here with the
work of extraterrestrials.
Why should extraterrestrials
work with stone?
Normally, the humans
made all these things.
Imagine our astronauts would
be able to go on Mars one day,
and they construct buildings.
They would, of course,
use the stone on Mars
for their buildings.
They would not take from the
Earth stone blocks or iron
blocks or steel up there.
It's a question
of transportation.
You use the blocks
which are there.
But what you use is your
knowledge and your tools
to make these precise blocks.
That's exactly why they did it.
Imagine ethnologists.
Ethnologists have their
precise technology with them,
maybe photo apparatuses,
measuring devices,
whatever, and they don't want to
carry up all this all the time
on their back.
They need some kind of depot.
That's why they
make a little place
to deposit their high technology
to save it against the clouds,
against the lightning,
and against the animals
and, of course,
against the humans.
In North America, we have
a very known Indian tribe
called the Hopi,
and the Hopi Indians
have wonderful traditions.
They make little figures
which they call "Kachinas."
And the Kachinas have
the shape of a form.
It's a body and a kind
of mask around the head.
You ask the Hopi about the
tradition of the Kachinas.
The Kachinas were the
high spiritual leaders
a long, long time
ago which taught
the forefathers of the Hopi.
Now, come back to South America.
In South America, we have
a tribe called the Kayapo.
The Kayapo live on the
upper Amazon River.
Every year, still today, they
have a special festivity.
One of their leaders
dresses in a straw garment.
The straw garment
covers the whole body,
comparable to the
Kachinas of the Hopi--
covers the whole body.
There's no opening for
eyes, nose, mouth--
it's completely covered.
The rest of the tribe
dances around this straw
man in straw garments, and they
sing the story of the teacher.
One day a long,
long time ago, they
hear the noise in the skies.
They were afraid, and they saw
a shimmering light coming down.
They were more afraid, and
they went to their caves.
Finally, it became quiet.
They went out, and in the
center of the village,
this big being was
standing, big--
it had no eyes, mouth--
nose.
In his hand he had an object,
and he was always looking
with this object around.
And then an animal appeared,
a jaguar, and the animal
went close to this
strange being.
And he just pointed with
his object to the animal,
and the animal fell down.
It was not dead, just like
a electroshock, et cetera.
The natives realized that
this strange being was not bad
because it did not hurt anyone.
And the natives within three
days learned their language.
And he said, my name
is Bep Kororoti.
And the natives ask,
what is "Bep Kororoti"?
It means "I'm coming from
the sky, from the firmament."
Like in all other
mythologies, Bep Kororoti
was the teacher of then.
He taught them,
again, in astronomy.
The Kayapos know about
our solar system,
about the planets
surrounding the Sun
in the correct distance.
He taught them about astronomy.
He taught them about agriculture
and different other little
weapons and so on.
Before Bep Kororoti disappeared,
like in other places,
he promised, I will return
in a faraway future.
Now, here in North
America, the Hopi Indians
make these Kachina dolls.
And they make it also
in honor of the gods
and that no one should
forget that the gods promised
to return in a far future.
Now, we're speaking of South
America, upper Amazon River.
We have this guy in this
straw garment, Bep Kororoti,
and it's the same mythology.
Before he disappeared,
he promised
to return in the far future.
And we have other tribes
where we can prove the gods.
You see, in Central
America, the Maya had
a very, very precise calendar.
According to their
mythology, in the beginning,
four gods were descending.
Before they touched the Earth,
they surrounded our planet,
and they surrounded it 13 times.
Four times 13 means 52.
The figure 52 is the ground
figure of the Maya calendar.
Every 52 years,
something starts again.
You can put many 52
years together to blocks,
but it always ends and
begins again after 52 years.
Now, today, they
symbolize these four gods.
If you go to Mexico City before
the great Museo of Antropologia
or if you go to Chichen
Itza or to Teotihuacan,
the natives show you this.
There is a gigantic
pillar up to the skies.
Now, four Indians arrive
in their colored dresses.
They climb the pillar.
Everyone has a rope with him.
Up on the pillar, they put
this rope around their foot
and then they jump
down, open their arms,
like the flying gods in Tulum,
the flying gods in Chichen
Itza, the head first.
And then the wings come down.
Now every of these
four symbolize gods--
surround the pillar
13 times before he
touches with his hands the
ground, the Mother Earth, Gaia.
Before they were 13
times, it was four gods.
Four times 13 means 52, the
Maya figure in the calendar.
So still today, in full
glory for tourists,
they show us these things.
And sometimes, I'm
really shocked.
A few years ago, I
was in Chichen Itza,
and I was sitting under
a tree in the shadow.
And a tourist guide
came with his tourists,
and then he saw the four Indians
flying around this pillar.
And he said, well, this
is a probe of courage.
I was like, forget it.
This is linear mythology,
not a probe of courage.
Every human on Earth in
the past and in the present
adores their gods.
The gods were the teachers.
Every cult does this, not
only the Maya or the Inca
or in India, all the
cultures around the world.
And still today,
still today, we have
four or five big religions.
They worship their religious
leaders or their gods.
But the gods of the past were
the teachers from outer space.
The culture of the
Maya, of course,
they represented
their gods in stone.
You go to Chichen Itza,
you see the descending gods
in stone, chiseled out in stone.
You go to Copan;
it's all the same.
You find the descending
gods all over the world.
Now we are talking
about the Maya.
And there is a place
called La Venta.
La Venta is, again, in
Mexico, and there is a park.
And there, for example,
you find one stone
which is called "the
dragon monolith."
You see, again, a human
being, like in Palenque.
He's sitting on a dragon.
Again, he uses some of his hands
to manipulate some control,
and he's definitely flying.
Also, you find a big stile.
A stile, in that
case, is a stone block
which is about three
and 1/2 meters high.
And up there, you
see a flying god.
You see his helmet completely,
and you see his hands
pointing down to the earthlings.
And his knees, his feet,
are pointing out to heaven.
Down there, you see humans with
great eyes, with open eyes.
They look to the sky.
So they have chiseled their
descending god coming down
from the sky.
These examples do exist.
The Maya pyramids are all
linked astronomically.
We were talking about Palenque,
the Temple of Inscription,
where the god Pakal is in his
vehicle going out to space.
The temple itself
to the pyramid is,
again, orientated east-west now.
So it all has to
do with astronomy.
On this planet, we
had many cultures,
and there are cultures
who were more primitive
and others who
were more advanced
in technology and in knowledge.
The ones who were
technologically
seen more primitive, they
were not visited or influenced
by extraterrestrials.
The one cultures who are higher
in technology and in knowledge
of astronomy, mathematics,
they were visited and taught
by extraterrestrials.
That's the only difference.
Soon as we had contact
with the teacher,
the culture
developed differently
than if you had no
contact with the teachers.
It's the same thing today.
You have kids out there.
The kids who are taught in
school are well-educated
and they understand something
about reading and mathematics,
and the others don't.
I know from all the mythologies
that the so-called gods
promised to return one day.
All the cultures in the past, as
soon as the white man appeared,
the natives believed
in the beginning
the white man was the
long-expected returned god.
For example, when
Francisco Pizarro--
he was a Spanish conqueror.
Roughly 400 years ago, he came
to South America, today's Peru.
The natives believed that he was
the long-awaited returned god.
They all fell down
on their knees.
The same thing in
Central America--
Hernando Cortes
was the conqueror.
Now, in the highlands of
Mexico, Moctezuma was ruling.
Moctezuma was a
well-educated man.
Personality, with a lot of
gold and silver and knowledge,
et cetera.
Even Moctezuma felt on his
knees before Hernando Cortes
because he believed the
long-awaited god has finally
returned.
The same thing in
the South Sea--
for example, when James Cook,
he came for the first time
to Hawaii, the natives
believed that James Cook
was the long-awaited god.
So all these
cultures in the past,
they had already the expectation
that some gods will return.
Now honestly, not every religion
can have right or can be right.
Some of them must be wrong.
There is neither Jesus
or Mahdi or Messiah
or ever who will return,
simply extraterrestrials.
Now, you ask me what happens
in connections of today.
In my opinion, at the
moment, we are already
visited by extraterrestrials,
but they do not shock us.
They are friendly enough.
They know how we function.
They know how our
brain functions.
They, of course,
have the technology
to show up before a
big football stadium.
There, all the cameras
are already there.
But the shock for humanity
would be an absolute catastrophe
because most of the
religion would break down.
And most of millions of
people have a feeling,
my life makes no sense anymore.
And I even suggest that
the big religious leaders,
they would say, no, they
are not good things.
They are evil things.
Fight against them.
So the extraterrestrials
know exactly how we function.
They know it because
we are their offspring.
They don't want to shock us.
That's why they slowly
observe us today.
They study us.
What language are
these humans talking?
What kind of bacteria
and viruses do they have?
What kind of weapons do we have?
Could it be dangerous for them?
Do we have atomic weapons?
It's a scientific
program of observation.
They study us in all
fields before they
make an official
shake-hand, and they
want that the spirit
of time changes.
They don't want to shock
mankind completely.
They want that the new
generation grows up,
and the new
generation is infected
with this idea of the gods
that they promised to return
and now they are back.
I am sure at the moment,
we are under observation.
And because they don't
want to shock us,
they make things like
these crop circles.
Crop circles-- we know
there are falsified cases.
We know how you can produce
these small crop circles.
But there are pictures in the
fields which are gigantic,
which humans cannot
falsify the case,
definitely not in one night.
So they show us by pictures
not to be shocked but learn.
Humans learn.
When always we humans see
something extraordinary,
it makes sense that we first
look for a scientific answer.
A scientific answer
means, come to
the next plausible explanation.
So in the crop circle
case, we find all kinds
of plausible explanations.
And then we find
out the plausible
or the next logical
explanation is not logical
anymore because the
pictures, the message,
becomes bigger and bigger.
So it's a mystery, which
forces us again to think, hey,
what's going on here?
Are we alone?
Is someone out there who
tried to give us a message
and we still are too
stupid to read it?
That's a kind of teaching
which goes on at the moment.
Extraterrestrials,
for themselves,
they learn everything about us.
And for us, they
do not shock us.
They give us a little time,
at least one generation,
to be prepared for
an official landing.
I'm Erich von Daniken.
Join me next time on
"Beyond the Legend."